Doc: Porting Guide cv_deploy (#5837)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: docs/getting-started/cv-deploy-porting.md

<!--
  ~ Copyright (c) 2025 Arista Networks, Inc.
  ~ Use of this source code is governed by the Apache License 2.0
  ~ that can be found in the LICENSE file.
  -->

# CloudVision Integration: Porting to `cv_deploy`

This guide provides a step-by-step process for updating your Ansible inventory and playbooks to ensure a smooth and successful transition from `eos_config_deploy_cvp` to `cv_deploy`.

## Requirements

> The `cv_deploy` role is now part of the `arista.avd` Ansible collection. This will now remove the requirement of the `arista.cvp` collection. It may be removed if you have the `arista.cvp` collection listed in your `requirements.yml` file. For a complete look at requirements, please see the [installation guide](../installation/collection-installation.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cv_deploy` role is part of the `arista.avd` Ansible collection. `arista.cvp` collection is not required any more for AVD-to-CloudVision integration using `cv_deploy`. For a complete look at requirements, please see the [installation guide](../installation/collection-installation.md).
```

<div class="grid" markdown>

=== "Old Requirements"

    ```yaml
    ---
    collections:
      - name: arista.avd
        version: 5.7.0
      - name: arista.cvp
        version: 3.12.0

    ```
=== "New Requirements"

    ```yaml
    ---
    collections:
      - name: arista.avd
        version: 5.7.0

    ```

</div>

## Target Host

In `eos_config_deploy_cvp`, we targeted the definition of a CloudVision host as the target node. In `cv_deploy`, we now target the intended devices and set parameters for the URL of the CloudVision instance and the token to be used for authentication.

<div class="grid" markdown>

=== "Old Playbook"

    ```yaml hl_lines="3"
    ---
    - name: Deploy Configurations
      hosts: cloudvision # Set to CloudVision instance
      gather_facts: false

      tasks:
        - name: Deploy configurations to CloudVision
          ansible.builtin.import_role:
            name: arista.avd.eos_config_deploy_cvp
          vars:
            container_root: 'DC1_FABRIC'
            configlets_prefix: 'DC1-AVD'
            device_filter: 'DC1'
            state: present

    ```

=== "Old Inventory"

    ```yaml

>     all:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ---
    all:
```

      children:
        cloudvision:
          hosts:
            <CloudVision node>:
              ansible_host: <CloudVision address>
              ansible_user: <CloudVision username>
              ansible_password: <CloudVision password>
              ansible_connection: httpapi
              ansible_httpapi_use_ssl: true
              ansible_httpapi_validate_certs: false
              ansible_network_os: eos
              ansible_httpapi_port: 443
    ```

=== "New Playbook"

    ```yaml hl_lines="3"
    ---
    - name: Deploy Configurations
      hosts: FABRIC # Now set to specific group
      gather_facts: false

      tasks:
        - name: Deploy configurations to CloudVision
          ansible.builtin.import_role:
            name: arista.avd.cv_deploy
          vars:
            cv_server: <hostname or IP address of CloudVision host>
            cv_token: <insert service_account token here - use Ansible Vault>

    ```

</div>

!!! note

>     An additional inventory definition is no longer required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Defining the CloudVision host in the Ansible inventory is no longer required.
```

## Authentication

We recommend leveraging the `cv_server` and `cv_token` keys to specify the authentication to your CloudVision instance. The `cv_token` should be generated from a service account with the appropriate permissions in your workflows. You can find step-by-step instructions on creating service account tokens in the `cv_deploy` role [documentation](../../ansible_collections/arista/avd/roles/cv_deploy/README.md#steps-to-create-service-accounts-on-cloudvision).

```yaml hl_lines="6 7 9 10"
  tasks:
    - name: Deploy configurations to CloudVision
      ansible.builtin.import_role:
        name: arista.avd.cv_deploy
      vars:
        cv_server: <hostname or IP address of CloudVision host>
        cv_token: <insert service_account token here - use Ansible Vault>
```

> !!!warning

Reviewer 2: I would not mark this as a warning

```suggestion
!!! note
```

>     You may use the combination of `cv_username` and `cv_password` instead of `cv_token`, but this is only supported for on-prem CloudVision. CVaaS only supports token-based authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * You may use the combination of `cv_username` and `cv_password` instead of `cv_token`, but this is only supported for on-prem CloudVision.
    * CVaaS only supports token-based authentication.
```

>     You may use the combination of `cv_username` and `cv_password` instead of `cv_token`, but this is only supported for on-prem CloudVision. CVaaS only supports the use of tokens, so please keep that in mind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You may use the combination of `cv_username` and `cv_password` instead of `cv_token`, but this is only supported for on-prem CloudVision. CVaaS only supports token-based authentication.
```

<!--
  ~ Copyright (c) 2025 Arista Networks, Inc.
  ~ Use of this source code is governed by the Apache License 2.0
  ~ that can be found in the LICENSE file.
  -->

> # CVP Integration: Porting to `cv_deploy`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# CloudVision Integration: Porting to `cv_deploy`
```

This guide provides a step-by-step process for updating your Ansible inventory and playbooks to ensure a smooth and successful transition from `eos_config_deploy_cvp` to `cv_deploy`.

## Requirements

> The `cv_deploy` role is now part of the `arista.avd` Ansible collection. This will now remove the requirement of the `arista.cvp` collection. It may be removed if you have the `arista.cvp` collection listed in your `requirements.yml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `cv_deploy` role is part of the `arista.avd` Ansible collection. `arista.cvp` collection is not required any more for AVD-to-CVP integration using `cv_deploy`.
```

Reviewer: I'd skip suggestion of removing arista.cvp from requirements as we normally expect people use requirements provided with AVD.

Author: You mean as far as leveraging the installation guides to let them know what they will need. I like this approach as it ensures users clean up their environments.

Reviewer 3: agreed. It will get installed anyway until we remove it from our requirements.yml, but this way it will no longer be installed once we remove it.

<div class="grid" markdown>

=== "Old Requirements"

    ```yaml
    ---
    collections:
      - name: arista.avd
        version: 5.7.0
      - name: arista.cvp
        version: 3.12.0

    ```
=== "New Requirements"

    ```yaml
    ---
    collections:
      - name: arista.avd
        version: 5.7.0

    ```

> </div>

Reviewer: same here, there is no need to specify requirements in this guide. this will come as part of CVP upgrade

<div class="grid" markdown>

=== "Old Playbook"

    ```yaml hl_lines="3"
    ---
    - name: Deploy Configurations
      hosts: cloudvision # Set to CloudVision instance
      gather_facts: false

      tasks:
        - name: Deploy configurations to CloudVision
          ansible.builtin.import_role:
            name: arista.avd.eos_config_deploy_cvp
          vars:
            container_root: 'DC1_FABRIC'
            configlets_prefix: 'DC1-AVD'
            device_filter: 'DC1'
            state: present

    ```

=== "Old Inventory"

    ```yaml
    all:
      children:
        cloudvision:
          hosts:
            cv_server01:
              ansible_host: 10.83.28.164
              ansible_user: ansible
              ansible_password: ansible
              ansible_connection: httpapi
              ansible_httpapi_use_ssl: true
              ansible_httpapi_validate_certs: false
              ansible_network_os: eos
              ansible_httpapi_port: 443
    ```

> === "New Playbook"

Reviewer: Make sure that the "New playbook" tab is the first. Also add "New inventory" tab showing high level inventory structure. TBH, old vs new can be better represented in a picture instead of a snippet.

Author: The standard convention would be to use old and then new. Leads to a more consistent direction IMO

        - name: Deploy configurations to CloudVision
          ansible.builtin.import_role:
            name: arista.avd.cv_deploy
          vars:
            cv_server: www.arista.io
            cv_token: <insert service_account token here - use Ansible Vault>

    ```

</div>

!!! note
    An additional inventory definition is no longer required.

## Authentication

We recommend leveraging the `cv_server` and `cv_token` keys to specify the authentication to your CloudVision instance. The `cv_token` should be generated from a service account with the appropriate permissions in your workflows. You can find step-by-step instructions on creating service account tokens in the `cv_deploy` role [documentation](../../ansible_collections/arista/avd/roles/cv_deploy/README.md#steps-to-create-service-accounts-on-cloudvision).

```yaml hl_lines="6 7 9 10"
  tasks:
    - name: Deploy configurations to CloudVision
      ansible.builtin.import_role:
        name: arista.avd.cv_deploy
      vars:
        cv_server: www.arista.io
        cv_token: <insert service_account token here - use Ansible Vault>
        # Optional with username and password instead of cv_token
        cv_username: arista

>         cv_password: <use Ansible Vault>

Reviewer: add a note that this is only supported for on-prem and CVaaS only support tokens. That is a very important disclaimer as there is some confusion in the field already.

Author: Can do, I'll set it as a warning so its very obvious

```

## Topology View with Tags - Preview

Some newer data models can automatically generate CloudVision Tags. The topology tags improve the topology layout within CloudVision.

```yaml
generate_cv_tags:
  topology_hints: true
  # campus_fabric used by CloudVision to render the correct network layout in the
  # Topology view (`campusV2` network hierarchy) and Campus dashboards.
  # campus_fabric: true

> ```

Reviewer: Let's remove this. It's not related to the migration towards cv_deploy and there is a separate doc section for this.

Author: Agreed, tags is its own thing. will remove

<!--
  ~ Copyright (c) 2025 Arista Networks, Inc.
  ~ Use of this source code is governed by the Apache License 2.0
  ~ that can be found in the LICENSE file.
  -->

> # CVP Integration. Porting to `cv_deploy`

Author: @ankudinov Not sure about the period here. If you want a divider, we could use a colon instead.

Reviewer: any divider works for me. overall I was simply looking for a shorter and clear title

<div class="grid" markdown>

=== "Old Requirements"

    ```yaml
    ---
    collections:
      - name: arista.avd
        version: 5.7.0
      - name: arista.cvp
        version: 3.12.0

    ```
=== "New Requirements"

    ```yaml
    ---
    collections:
      - name: arista.avd
        version: 5.7.0

    ```

</div>

## Target Host

In `eos_config_deploy_cvp`, we targeted the definition of a CloudVision host as the target node. In `cv_deploy`, we now target the intended devices and set parameters for the URL of the CloudVision instance and the token to be used for authentication. You may also create a `cloudvision` host as before and the name is configurable by leveraging the key `cv_inventory_hostname` in your deployment. Please note, the `cloudvision` host is only leveraged to pickup the `ansible_host` and `ansible_password` to connect to CloudVision. This means `ansible_password` should still be a token from the service account.

<div class="grid" markdown>

=== "Old Playbook"

    ```yaml
    ---
    - name: Deploy Configurations
      hosts: cloudvision
      gather_facts: false

> 

Reviewer 3: I think this and the new playbook should also show the tasks and how they change. It is split between two sections which is a bit confusing.

Author: I like this take, I'll add the changes. Thank you

    ```

=== "Old Inventory"

    ```yaml
    all:
      children:
        cloudvision:
          hosts:

>             cv_server01:

Reviewer 3: The indentation looks wrong between this line and the following.
Also use a variable for the server name

Author: Corrected the indentation. Can you please clarify what you mean on the server name?

            ansible_host: 10.83.28.164
            ansible_user: ansible

>             ansible_password: ansible

Reviewer 3: let's use <variables> for these fields.

Author: Claus, what????

Reviewer: my guess - we should use some kind of `<your-value>` here

Author: Understood now, I'll make the updates. Thank you

    ```yaml
    all:
      hosts:
        cloudvision:
          ansible_host: <hostname or IP address of CloudVision host. Ex. "www.arista.io" for CVaaS>
          ansible_password: <service account token as defined on CloudVision. This value should be using Ansible Vault>

    ```

</div>

Since we are now targeting the appropriate hosts in the playbook. You may have had a `device_filter` when leveraging `eos_config_deploy_cvp`. This can now be removed. We also no longer require building out a container hierarchy to associate devices to configurations, therefore `container_root` can also be removed.

<div class="grid" markdown>

=== "Old Playbook"

    ```yaml
    tasks:
      - name: Deploy configurations to CloudVision
        ansible.builtin.import_role:
          name: arista.avd.eos_config_deploy_cvp
        vars:
          container_root: 'DC1_FABRIC'
          configlets_prefix: 'DC1-AVD'
          device_filter: 'DC1'
          state: present

    ```

=== "New Playbook"

    ```yaml
    tasks:
      - name: Deploy configurations to CloudVision
        ansible.builtin.import_role:
          name: arista.avd.cv_deploy

    ```

</div>

## Authentication

> The `cv_deploy` role has support for username and password combinations for authentication. Although, we recommend you leverage a service account with the appropriate permissions in your workflows. You can find step-by-step instructions on creating service account tokens in the `cv_deploy` role [documentation](../../ansible_collections/arista/avd/roles/cv_deploy/README.md#steps-to-create-service-accounts-on-cloudvision). Please note, you do not have to define `cv_server` and `cv_token` if you have created a `cloudvision` host as mentioned in the previous section.

Reviewer 3: I think we shoudl use the cv_token and cv_server and the general recommendation instead of relying on an inventory device. It is much simpler. Those variables should be set on the task in the playbook.

Author: Agreed, I'll leave that part out and in the end link the the role documentation for a full breakdown of options.

Author: Thoughts on keeping cv_username and cv_password in the example block or remove it?

Reviewer: maybe move to cv_username and cv_password to some disclaimer. It it has to be very clear that they are for on-prem only. We shouldn't skip this completely as many customers will be migrating from a setup with user accounts towards tokens and skipping that will trigger confusion.

!!! warning

    The use of username and password combinations is not supported on CloudVision as a Service (CVaaS).

<div class="grid" markdown>

=== "Manual override within the playbook"

    ```yaml
    tasks:
      - name: Deploy configurations to CloudVision
        ansible.builtin.import_role:
          name: arista.avd.cv_deploy
        vars:
          cv_server: www.arista.io
          cv_token: <insert service_account token here - use Ansible Vault>
          # Optional with username and password instead of cv_token
          cv_username: arista
          cv_password: <use Ansible Vault>
    ```

=== "Overrides within FABRIC variables"

    ```yaml
    cv_server: www.arista.io
    cv_token: <insert service_account token here - use Ansible Vault>
    # Optional with username and password instead of cv_token
    cv_username: arista
    cv_password: <use Ansible Vault>

    ```

</div>

## Topology View with Tags - Preview

> There is newer data-models that can automatically generate CloudVision tags. The topology view generation with tags is geared towards Campus deployments at the time of this writing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are newer data-models that can automatically generate CloudVision tags. The topology view generation with tags is geared towards Campus deployments at the time of this writing.
```

Reviewer 3: The topology hints where intended for both dc and campus. How are they more for Campus?

Author: My mistake, the naming is confusing then since it states `campus_fabric`, I'll get it updated!
